# Simulate and recover : EZ Diffusion Model 

This simulate and recover exercise tests the consistency of the EZ Diffusion model in recovering its own generated parameters. It allows researchers to make the claim that if data are truly generated by an EZ Diffusion model, then the estimation procedure can recover the parameters accurately. 

The final recovered parameter estimates are: 

For N = 10 

| Bias (α) : -0.03841278 | Bias (ν) : 0.01552985 | Bias (τ) : 0.0117753 

| Squared Error (α) : 0.0363436  | Squared Error (ν) : 0.43214295 | Squared Error (τ) : 0.01835462  

For N = 40 

| Bias (α) : 0.00337609 | Bias (ν) : 0.03287753 | Bias (τ) : 0.00345789

| Squared Error (α) : 0.01443131  | Squared Error (ν) : 0.12771861  | Squared Error (τ) : 0.00402081  

For N = 4000

| Bias (α) : -1.90994972e-04  | Bias (ν) : 1.53750059e-03 | Bias (τ) : -4.46620494e-05

| Squared Error (α) : 0.01443131  | Squared Error (ν) : 0.12771861  | Squared Error (τ) : 0.00402081  

Based on these results, we can see that bias approaches zero as sample size increases. 
When N = 10, although close to zero, there is still a noticeable bias. 
When N = 40, bias decreases significantly and when N = 4000, bias is nearly zero. 
Since bias is calculated as the difference between true parameters and estimated parameters, this confirms accurate parameter recovery since ideally, b is close to 0 on average. 

Also note that bias is zero when we set the observed summary statistics to the predicted summary statistics because the true parameters and estimated parameters are identical. This shows us that the model can accurately recover true parameters. 

The squared error for all parameters also decreases as N increases meaning larger sample sizes reduce variability in estimates. Large sample sizes provide more data points which leads to more accurate estimate summary statistics for true parameter recovery. 

However, when N = 10, there is a noticeable high variability. Variance estimates (V_obs) are noisy because variance follows a Gamma distribution. When sample size is small, this leads to high variance.
Additionally, accuracy sampling follows a binomial distribution. Due to this, small sample size causes response to be sensitive to randomness, leading to unreliable parameter recovery. As N increases, variance decreases and leads to a more accurate representation of parameter estimates. 


This simulation and recover exercise validates the EZ diffusion model by demonstrating it can accurately recover generated parameters. Using simulation and recover allows us to confirm the model reliability and consistency by assessing its performance under different conditions and varying levels of noise. In cognitive modeling, this approach helps ensure that the EZ diffusion is a reliable tool for estimating cognitive processes from behavioral data, especially when the underlying processes are believed to follow the diffusion model. We can use EZ diffusion to not only filter noisy data, but to transform it into interpretable quantities. 
